README.md, before:

# jira2things

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/images/banner.png" alt="Project Banner" height="200">
</p>

A Python application that synchronizes JIRA tickets to your local SQLite database and integrates with Things 3 for task management.

It is the spiritual successor to [hackerdude/jiratotaskmanagers](https://github.com/hackerdude/jiratotaskmanagers) and it follows the same philosophy of the "one tasklist" system. By mapping active tickets to Things Today status it also keeps you sharp on updating your Jira tickets to their correct statuses.

## Features

- **One-way sync**: Fetch tickets from JIRA → Store in local database → Sync to Things 3
- **Smart status mapping**: Automatically schedule tasks in Things based on JIRA status
- **Incremental updates**: Only syncs changed tickets to minimize calls to Things
- **Robust(ish) sync tracking**: Tracks sync status per ticket ('synced', 'not synced', 'unknown')
- **Flexible configuration**: Configurable status mappings, tags, and projects

## Requirements

This application uses both `xcall` and `pyThings` to work. They are bundled in this repository under `librarys`

- [xcall](https://github.com/martinfinke/xcall)
- [pyThings](https://github.com/lucasjhall/pyThings)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository with submodules:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:laufwerkcode/jira2things.git
cd jira2things
```

2. Create a `.venv`

```bash
 python3 -m venv .venv
 source .venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Create your configuration file (see Configuration section below)

## Usage

### Command Options

```bash
# Default: Update database from JIRA and sync unsynced tickets to Things
python main.py

# Update database only (fetch from JIRA, no Things sync)
python main.py --update-db

# Sync unsynced tickets to Things only (no JIRA fetch)
python main.py --sync-to-things

# Force resync ALL tickets to Things (regardless of sync status)
python main.py --resync-to-things

# Enable verbose logging
python main.py --verbose

# Use custom config file
python main.py --config my-config
```

## Configuration

1. **Copy the example config file:**
   ```bash
   cp config.example config
   ```

2. **Edit the `config` file** with your actual values (see sections below)

3. **Important**: Never commit your `config` file to version control as it contains sensitive tokens!

### Configuration File Format

The `config` file uses a simple `KEY=VALUE` format. Here are the available options:

### Required JIRA Settings

```ini
JIRA_BASE_URL=https://your-company.atlassian.net
JIRA_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here
JIRA_USER_EMAIL=your.email@company.com
```

### Optional JIRA Settings

```ini
# Custom JQL query (default shown)
JIRA_JQL_QUERY=assignee = currentUser() AND updated >= -14d
```

### Things 3 Integration

```ini
# Required for Things sync
THINGS_AUTH_TOKEN=your_things_auth_token

# Optional Things settings
THINGS_PROJECT=Work Projects
THINGS_TAGS=['jira', 'work']
JIRA_TYPE_TAG=true
```

### Status Mapping

Configure how JIRA statuses map to Things scheduling:

```ini
# Tickets with these statuses go to "Today" in Things
TODAY_STATUS=['In Progress', 'Active', 'Doing']

# Tickets with these statuses go to "Someday" in Things
SOMEDAY_STATUS=['Backlog', 'Future']

# Tickets with these statuses go to "Anytime" in Things (default)
ANYTIME_STATUS=['To Do', 'Open', 'New']

# Tickets with these statuses are marked as completed in Things
COMPLETED_STATUS=['Done', 'Closed', 'Resolved']
```

## Status Mapping Logic

The app maps JIRA ticket statuses to Things 3 scheduling areas:

- **Today**: Urgent/active work (appears in Today view)
- **Anytime**: Ready to work on (appears in Anytime list)
- **Someday**: Future/backlog items (appears in Someday list)
- **Completed**: Automatically marked as done in Things

If a status isn't configured, tickets default to **Anytime**.

## Getting JIRA API Token

1. Go to [Atlassian Account Settings](https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens)
2. Click "Create API token"
3. Give it a label and copy the token
4. Add it to your config file as `JIRA_API_TOKEN`

## Getting Things Auth Token

1. Enable Things URL scheme in Things 3 preferences
2. Use the provided `auth-test.py` script to get your token
3. Add it to your config file as `THINGS_AUTH_TOKEN`

## Important Notes

### Tags in Things

If you configure `THINGS_TAGS` or enable `JIRA_TYPE_TAG=true`, you **must create these tags in Things 3 first**. The app cannot create new tags - it can only assign existing ones.

### Database

The app creates a local SQLite database (`jira_tasks.db`) to track tickets and sync status. This enables efficient incremental syncing and offline access to your ticket data.

### Sync Status

Each ticket has a sync status:
- **'not synced'**: Needs to be synced to Things (new or changed tickets)
- **'synced'**: Successfully synced to Things
- **'unknown'**: Sync failed - needs troubleshooting

## Troubleshooting

- **"No issues found"**: Check your JQL query and JIRA permissions
- **Things sync fails**: Verify auth token and ensure tags exist in Things
- **Config errors**: Ensure all required fields are present and properly formatted
- **Use `--verbose`** for detailed logging when debugging issues

## Example Workflow

1. **Initial setup**:
   - Copy `config.example` to `config`
   - Configure JIRA and Things credentials in the `config` file
2. **First run**: `python main.py` (syncs all matching tickets)
3. **Daily use**: Run periodically to sync new/changed tickets
4. **Troubleshooting**: Use `--resync-to-things` if Things gets out of sync

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- A JIRA account with API token access
- Access to the JIRA instance you want to query
- Things 3 installed on your Mac
- things.py library installed (bundled with this repo in librarys/pyThings)

## JQL Query

By default we use the following query to not overburden the Jira API:

```jql
currentUser() AND updated >= -14d
```

## Database Structure

The SQLite database contains a single table `jira_tickets` with the following columns:

- `ticket_id`: The JIRA issue key (e.g., "PROJ-123")
- `summary`: Issue title
- `description`: Full issue description
- `has_subtasks`: Boolean indicating if the issue has subtasks
- `created_at`: Timestamp when the record was created in the database

## Error Handling

The script includes basic error handling and will print error messages if:

- JIRA connection fails
- Authentication fails
- JQL query is invalid
- Database operations fail

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues and pull requests for additional features or improvements.

Commit message:

Added link and info to Jira Python

README.md, after:

# jira2things

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/images/banner.png" alt="Project Banner" height="200">
</p>

A Python application that synchronizes JIRA tickets to your local SQLite database and integrates with Things 3 for task management.

It is the spiritual successor to [hackerdude/jiratotaskmanagers](https://github.com/hackerdude/jiratotaskmanagers) and it follows the same philosophy of the "one tasklist" system. By mapping active tickets to Things Today status it also keeps you sharp on updating your Jira tickets to their correct statuses.

## Features

- **One-way sync**: Fetch tickets from JIRA → Store in local database → Sync to Things 3
- **Smart status mapping**: Automatically schedule tasks in Things based on JIRA status
- **Incremental updates**: Only syncs changed tickets to minimize calls to Things
- **Robust(ish) sync tracking**: Tracks sync status per ticket ('synced', 'not synced', 'unknown')
- **Flexible configuration**: Configurable status mappings, tags, and projects

## Requirements

This application uses both `xcall` and `pyThings` to work. They are bundled in this repository under `librarys`. We also use the Python Jira module for auth.

- [xcall](https://github.com/martinfinke/xcall)
- [pyThings](https://github.com/lucasjhall/pyThings)
- [Python Jira](https://jira.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository with submodules:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:laufwerkcode/jira2things.git
cd jira2things
```

2. Create a `.venv`

```bash
 python3 -m venv .venv
 source .venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Create your configuration file (see Configuration section below)

## Usage

### Command Options

```bash
# Default: Update database from JIRA and sync unsynced tickets to Things
python main.py

# Update database only (fetch from JIRA, no Things sync)
python main.py --update-db

# Sync unsynced tickets to Things only (no JIRA fetch)
python main.py --sync-to-things

# Force resync ALL tickets to Things (regardless of sync status)
python main.py --resync-to-things

# Enable verbose logging
python main.py --verbose

# Use custom config file
python main.py --config my-config
```

## Configuration

1. **Copy the example config file:**
   ```bash
   cp config.example config
   ```

2. **Edit the `config` file** with your actual values (see sections below)

3. **Important**: Never commit your `config` file to version control as it contains sensitive tokens!

### Configuration File Format

The `config` file uses a simple `KEY=VALUE` format. Here are the available options:

### Required JIRA Settings

```ini
JIRA_BASE_URL=https://your-company.atlassian.net
JIRA_API_TOKEN=your_api_token_here
JIRA_USER_EMAIL=your.email@company.com
```

### Optional JIRA Settings

```ini
# Custom JQL query (default shown)
JIRA_JQL_QUERY=assignee = currentUser() AND updated >= -14d
```

### Things 3 Integration

```ini
# Required for Things sync
THINGS_AUTH_TOKEN=your_things_auth_token

# Optional Things settings
THINGS_PROJECT=Work Projects
THINGS_TAGS=['jira', 'work']
JIRA_TYPE_TAG=true
```

### Status Mapping

Configure how JIRA statuses map to Things scheduling:

```ini
# Tickets with these statuses go to "Today" in Things
TODAY_STATUS=['In Progress', 'Active', 'Doing']

# Tickets with these statuses go to "Someday" in Things
SOMEDAY_STATUS=['Backlog', 'Future']

# Tickets with these statuses go to "Anytime" in Things (default)
ANYTIME_STATUS=['To Do', 'Open', 'New']

# Tickets with these statuses are marked as completed in Things
COMPLETED_STATUS=['Done', 'Closed', 'Resolved']
```

## Status Mapping Logic

The app maps JIRA ticket statuses to Things 3 scheduling areas:

- **Today**: Urgent/active work (appears in Today view)
- **Anytime**: Ready to work on (appears in Anytime list)
- **Someday**: Future/backlog items (appears in Someday list)
- **Completed**: Automatically marked as done in Things

If a status isn't configured, tickets default to **Anytime**.

## Getting JIRA API Token

1. Go to [Atlassian Account Settings](https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens)
2. Click "Create API token"
3. Give it a label and copy the token
4. Add it to your config file as `JIRA_API_TOKEN`

## Getting Things Auth Token

1. Enable Things URL scheme in Things 3 preferences
2. Use the provided `auth-test.py` script to get your token
3. Add it to your config file as `THINGS_AUTH_TOKEN`

## Important Notes

### Tags in Things

If you configure `THINGS_TAGS` or enable `JIRA_TYPE_TAG=true`, you **must create these tags in Things 3 first**. The app cannot create new tags - it can only assign existing ones.

### Database

The app creates a local SQLite database (`jira_tasks.db`) to track tickets and sync status. This enables efficient incremental syncing and offline access to your ticket data.

### Sync Status

Each ticket has a sync status:
- **'not synced'**: Needs to be synced to Things (new or changed tickets)
- **'synced'**: Successfully synced to Things
- **'unknown'**: Sync failed - needs troubleshooting

## Troubleshooting

- **"No issues found"**: Check your JQL query and JIRA permissions
- **Things sync fails**: Verify auth token and ensure tags exist in Things
- **Config errors**: Ensure all required fields are present and properly formatted
- **Use `--verbose`** for detailed logging when debugging issues

## Example Workflow

1. **Initial setup**:
   - Copy `config.example` to `config`
   - Configure JIRA and Things credentials in the `config` file
2. **First run**: `python main.py` (syncs all matching tickets)
3. **Daily use**: Run periodically to sync new/changed tickets
4. **Troubleshooting**: Use `--resync-to-things` if Things gets out of sync

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- A JIRA account with API token access
- Access to the JIRA instance you want to query
- Things 3 installed on your Mac
- things.py library installed (bundled with this repo in librarys/pyThings)

## JQL Query

By default we use the following query to not overburden the Jira API:

```jql
currentUser() AND updated >= -14d
```

## Database Structure

The SQLite database contains a single table `jira_tickets` with the following columns:

- `ticket_id`: The JIRA issue key (e.g., "PROJ-123")
- `summary`: Issue title
- `description`: Full issue description
- `has_subtasks`: Boolean indicating if the issue has subtasks
- `created_at`: Timestamp when the record was created in the database

## Error Handling

The script includes basic error handling and will print error messages if:

- JIRA connection fails
- Authentication fails
- JQL query is invalid
- Database operations fail

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues and pull requests for additional features or improvements.
